v0.10.0 release notes
=====================

New features
------------

* NEW event & calendar pages! See :doc:`/features/page_types/event_pages`.
* NEW "Embed Media" block replacing the "Embed Video" block. Embed Media supports YouTube,
  Vimeo, Tweets, Facebook posts, GitHub gists, Spotify, Etsy, Tumblr, and dozens of other sources.
* NEW tags on all ``CoderedPage`` pages. Tags provide a global and flexible way of organizing
  and categorizing content. More tagging features coming soon.
* NEW color picker available in the wagtail admin. Use ``coderedcms.fields.ColorField`` on your
  models or ``coderedcms.widgets.ColorPickerWidget`` on Django form fields.
* NEW official documentation! More user and how-to guides coming soon.
  Available at https://docs.coderedcorp.com/wagtail-crx/.
* Updated to Wagtail 2.3.
* Added support for Django 2.1. Supports Django 1.11 through 2.1.
* Added additional template blocks in ``coderedcms/pages/base.html`` for easier extending.


Bug fixes
---------

* Modals no longer require a footer.


Maintenance
-----------

* Replace Wagtail version with CodeRed CMS version in admin.
* Replace built-in cache with `wagtail-cache <https://github.com/coderedcorp/wagtail-cache/>`_.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* Some template blocks added to ``coderedcms/pages/web_page.html`` in 0.9 were removed and replaced
  with more general blocks in ``coderedcms/pages/base.html``.
* "Formatted Code" block (``coderedcms.blocks.CodeBlock``) was removed. If needed, use a 3rd party
  block instead such as `wagtailcodeblock <https://github.com/FlipperPA/wagtailcodeblock>`_,
  or use the new "Embed Media" block with GitHub gists.
* ``CODERED_CACHE_PAGES`` setting replaced with ``WAGTAIL_CACHE``.
* ``CODERED_CACHE_BACKEND`` setting replaced with ``WAGTAIL_CACHE_BACKEND``.
* Existing projects must add ``wagtailcache`` to ``INSTALLED_APPS`` in project settings.
* Existing projects must make and apply new migrations.
