v0.15.0 release notes
=====================


New features
------------

* NEW Stream Forms for doing advanced multi-step forms with conditional logic!
  See :doc:`/features/page_types/stream_forms`.
* NEW optional environment specifier banners! See CODERED_BANNER settings in
  :doc:`/reference/django_settings`.
* NEW documentation for built-in page types! See :doc:`/features/page_types/index`.
* NEW tutorial! See :doc:`/getting_started/tutorial01`.
* Upgraded Wagtail to version 2.5. Now supports Django versions 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2.
  Supports Python versions 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7.

Bug fixes
---------

None


Maintenance
-----------

* Upgraded jQuery to version 3.4.
* Upgraded pickadate.js (fallback to native HTML5 date/time inputs) to version 3.6.
* Internally switched to Sass for more modular development and debugging.
* Now provides minified version of ``codered-front.css`` (``codered-front.min.css``).
* Added licensing information to JavaScript files, and now supports LibreJS.
* Added unit tests for improved quality control. See :doc:`/contributing/index`.
  See :doc:`/contributing/index`.
* Added continuous integration pipelines for improved quality control.
* Minor code cleanups.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* You will need to run ``python manage.py makemigrations website`` and ``python manage.py migrate`` after upgrading.
* Static css/js files have been moved. If you are referencing them manually in your
  templates, please update accordingly:

    * ``css/codered-front.css`` -> ``coderedcms/css/codered-front[.min].css``
    * ``js/codered-front.js`` -> ``coderedcms/js/codered-front.js``


Thank You
---------

Special thank you to our new `contributors <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/graphs/contributors>`_
and to everyone who joined us at PyCon US 2019 sprints.
