CodeRed CMS 0.16.0 release notes
================================


New features
------------

* NEW spam protection on forms (ON by default). We have been piloting this out
  for several months and have seen a 100% success rate so far. See :doc:`/features/page_types/form_pages`.
* NEW support for Sass via a new starter template. See :doc:`/getting_started/install`.
* Upgraded Wagtail to version 2.6. Now supports Django versions 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2;
  Python versions 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7.
* Now supports page translation via `wagtail-modeltranslation <https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation>`_.
  See new how-to guide: :doc:`/how_to/translation`.


Bug fixes
---------

* Improved HTML5 validity by removing space within tags and ``href`` attributes.
* Improved accessibility by adding title attribute to embedded iframes.
* Specify language in HTML tag. See :doc:`/getting_started/customize_develop`.


Maintenance
-----------

* Major code cleanup to conform to Python best practices.
* New continuous integration to enforce code quality standards outlined in :doc:`/contributing/index`.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* You might need to run ``python manage.py makemigrations website`` and ``python manage.py migrate`` after upgrading.
* Use of content delivery network for Bootstrap and jQuery has been replaced with local files.
  This will improve local development and use behind firewalls/offline environments.
  To continue using a CDN, override ``{% block frontend_assets %}`` , ``{% block required_scripts %}`` ,
  and ``{% block frontend_scripts %}`` in your ``base.html`` file.
* Python 3.4 support has been dropped by Wagtail.
