CodeRed CMS 0.11.0 release notes
================================


New features
------------

* NEW Mailchimp integration with form pages. See :doc:`/features/mailchimp`.
* Updated to Wagtail 2.4, which now includes Python 3.7 support.
* Apple-touch-icon favicons are now included for better experience with iOS devices.
* The "password required" page has been Bootstrap-ified and matches the website style.
* ``coderedcms start`` command has new ``--sitename`` and ``--domain`` options to help pre-populate
  settings. The command also has more helpful output for beginners.


Bug fixes
---------

* Can now create Card Grids inside of a Hero Unit.
* Fixed invalid HTML syntax in "Latest Pages" block.
* Fix appearance of search page when no query is specified.
* Layout fixes and CSS cleanup for admin dashboard.
* Allow reordering form fields in generated website app.
* Fixed bug in ``prod.py`` settings in generated website app.
* Added ``__init__.py`` and ``apps.py`` to generated website app for better compatibility with uWSGI.


Maintenance
-----------

* Standardized edit handler definitions in ``coderedcms/models/page_models.py``.
* Removed unused CSS from deprecated "Formatted Code Block".
* Updated wagtail-cache to 0.3, which includes Redis support.
* Squashed all migrations in generated website app into 2 migrations.
  There will always just be 2 initial migrations in this app going forward.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* Django 1.11 support has been removed by Wagtail 2.4.
* You will need to run ``python manage.py makemigrations website`` and
  ``python manage.py migrate`` after upgrading.
