CodeRed CMS 0.13.0 release notes
================================


New features
------------

* New CMS installations will now cache 301/302 redirects and 404 pages.
  Existing CMS installations should switch to new wagtail-cache middleware to gain this behavior
  (see upgrade considerations).
* **Settings > General > From Email Address** now allows specifying sender name in
  "Sender Name <sender@example.com>" format.
* **Settings > Tracking > Track button clicks** now tracks ALL anchor clicks, not just Button Blocks.


Bug fixes
---------

* Minor bug fixes to form page template.
* Minor bug fixes to search page template.
* Fixed bug that prevented previewing Event page types.
* Fixed Structured Data error on Event page types.
* Body previews now properly render HTML entities (apostrophes, non-breaking spaces, etc.).
* Images in Rich Text Blocks are now properly positioned left/right/full-width on the front-end.
* Fixed AMP rendering issues with images in Rich Text Blocks.


Maintenance
-----------

* Updated Bootstrap to version 4.3.1, and other JavaScript library updates.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* Robots.txt settings were REMOVED from **Settings > General**. If you had custom custom robots.txt specified here,
  move your robots.txt content to ``website/templates/robots.txt`` file before upgrading.
* Existing installations must add the new wagtail-cache middleware to ``MIDDLEWARE`` in the Django settings file as
  described `in wagtail-cache documentation <https://docs.coderedcorp.com/wagtail-cache/stable/getting_started/install.html>`_
  after upgrading.
* You will need to run ``python manage.py makemigrations website`` and ``python manage.py migrate`` after upgrading.
