v0.23.0 release notes
=====================


New features
------------

* Upgraded to Wagtail 2.16

* Calendar/Events:

  * Add link to the page in the body of ``ical`` downloads for that event.

  * Add 15 minute reminder to ``ical`` downloads.

* The project has formally changed names from "CodeRed CMS" to "Wagtail CRX".
  This is short for Wagtail + CodeRed Extensions. To accurately reflect our
  alignment with Wagtail there are a number of visual changes:

  * New docs theme, based on the Wagtail theme.

  * Removed "powered by CodeRed" logo at bottom of Wagtail admin.

  * Style of the Wagtail admin more closely matches stock Wagtail.


Bug fixes
---------

* Fix the ``CODERED_BANNER`` :doc:`setting </reference/django_settings>`
  not showing up in the Wagtail admin.

* Image blocks are no longer scaled larger than the original image size.
  Previously, they were forced to 100% of the container size, which made small
  icons etc. look too large.


Maintenance
-----------

* Upgrade dependency ``django-bootstrap4`` to version 22.1

* Remove traces of old AMP code.

* Removed some of our CSS customizations in the Wagtail admin, in preparation
  for UI changes coming in Wagtail 3.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

* Wagtail is now using a new search backend.

  * Specify the `new default in your settings <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/releases/2.15.html#database-search-backends-replaced>`_.

  * Next, you will need to run the `update_index command <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/reference/management_commands.html#update-index>`_.

* Other upgrade considerations for `Wagtail 2.15 <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/releases/2.15.html#upgrade-considerations>`_.

* Other upgrade considerations for `Wagtail 2.16 <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/releases/2.16.html#upgrade-considerations>`_.

* Font Awesome (``wagtailfontawesome``) has been removed as a dependency. You
  should remove this from your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` and/or ``requirements.txt``
  file (unless you are using it elsewhere in your code).

* Social Media Settings were removed. These were unused in the system. If you
  happen to be using them in your project code, you should create a copy of the
  ``SocialMediaSettings`` model in your local project code, and migrate data to
  it, before upgrading. `This change shows what was removed <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/pull/482/files#diff-f2b3f43b8ce0d03ffdd2f133da2f81e186e25c063e374f731727820aa9c14713L20>`_.


Supported software
------------------

* Python 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10

* Django 3.2


Thank you!
----------

Thanks to everyone who contributed to `0.23.0 on GitHub <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/milestone/33?closed=1>`_.
