v3.0.0 release notes
====================


New features
------------

* Support Wagtail 5.0, 5.1, and 5.2.

* Support Python 3.8 to 3.12

* Includes Bootstrap 5.3

* New projects now include ``EventPage`` and ``LocationPage`` in ``models.py`` by default.

* New project template: ``pro``. This is the highly recommended starting point for larger projects or paying clients. It includes:

  * Custom User, Image, and Document models by default.

  * ``ruff`` linter and formatter pre-configured.

  * ``pytest`` pre-configured.

  * ``mypy`` pre-configured.


Bug fixes
---------

* Remove discontinued Google Analytics (Universal Analytics). This was shut down by Google in June 2023.

* Fix issues with custom image models. A bug was introduced in some migrations with 2.0 which hard-coded the wagtail image class in some snippets.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

This should be a straightforward upgrade with no major functional changes.

Be sure to read the `Wagtail 5 upgrade considerations <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/releases/5.0.html#upgrade-considerations>`_.

If you'd like to add our new developer tooling to your existing project, copy the `pyproject.toml <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/blob/main/coderedcms/project_template/pro/pyproject.toml>`_ and `requirements-dev.txt <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/blob/main/coderedcms/project_template/pro/requirements-dev.txt>`_. files.


Thank you!
----------

Thanks to everyone who contributed to `3.0.0 on GitHub <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/milestone/50?closed=1>`_.
