v4.0.0 release notes
====================


New features
------------

* Support Wagtail 6.0 and 6.1.

* Support Python 3.8 to 3.12.

* Update Bootstrap to 5.3.3

* New: Ability to disable built-in Navbar, Footer, Analytics Settings, and CRX Settings. See :doc:`/reference/django_settings`.

* New: enhancements to ``pro`` project template:

  * Includes new custom Navbar and Footer snippets. Built-in CRX Navbar and Footer are disabled. This is the recommended approach as it will be much more customizable for professional website builds.

  * Fix missing Filmstrip sass module.

* Improvements to rich text rendering:

  * Left and right image positions now have a max-width of 40%. This makes the images look more natural when laid out on the page.

  * Full-width images will use the full size of the image, centered, rather than forcing the image to 100% width. This looks much more natural for small images or icons.

  * Headings will now break to a new line below a left or right aligned image. This is a more expected behavior.

  * These are all CSS-only changes, and therefore can be easily overridden as needed.

* Improve rendering of search form. Removed the green check icon, which is unexpected on a single-field form.


Bug fixes
---------

* Fix template error (Server 500 error) when a page is deleted which is referenced in a Page Preview block.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

After upgrading, be sure to generate and apply new migrations as so:

.. code-block::

   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate

Be sure to also review the API changes below, and the `Wagtail 6 upgrade considerations <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/releases/6.0.html#upgrade-considerations-removal-of-deprecated-features-from-wagtail-4-2-5-1>`_.

Theme dropdown removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Theme** dropdown has been removed from **Settings > CRX Settings**. If you were using it, you can manually add a Bootswatch theme by adding/editing the following to: ``website/templates/coderedcms/pages/base.html``:

.. code-block:: django

   {% block frontend_assets %}
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="your bootswatch theme here">
   {% endblock %}

The appropriate href for the ``<link>`` tag can be found here: https://cdnjs.com/libraries/bootswatch

Template tag changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``crx_settings`` and ``django_settings`` filters have been removed (these were identical functions). They have been replaced with a more useful template tag ``django_setting``. Find and replace them in your templates.

Before (with the example ``TIME_ZONE`` setting):

.. code-block:: django

   <span>{{ "TIME_ZONE"|crx_settings }}</span>
   <span>{{ "TIME_ZONE"|django_settings }}</span>

After:

.. code-block:: django

   {% django_setting "TIME_ZONE" as time_zone %}
   <span>{{ time_zone }}</span>


Block changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``button_title`` has been moved from ``ButtonMixin`` to ``BaseLinkBlock``. In practice, these two are used together and this change has no effect.

* ``get_title`` utility function added to ``LinkStructValue``. This will generate a title based on ``button_title``, page title, or document title.

These two changes provide great utility to the new custom Navbar in the ``pro`` template.


Thank you!
----------

Thanks to everyone who contributed to `4.0.0 on GitHub <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/milestone/54?closed=1>`_.
