v4.1.0 release notes
====================


New features
------------

* Support Wagtail 6.3 exclusively.

* Support Python 3.9 to 3.13.

* Improve visual consistency of miniview and search templates, including uniform height when rendered in rows, i.e. Related Pages.

* New miniview template for Article and Event pages, which show more contextual details about each page type.

* All miniview templates now include variables ``h`` to set the heading level, and ``miniview_css_class`` to add CSS to the top level card.

* New search template for Event pages which shows more contextual details.


Bug fixes
---------

* Fix modal and download buttons by restoring ``button_title`` field on ``ButtonMixin`` (which was previously refactored in v4.0).

* Fix accessibility warnings about inconsistent heading levels of Related Pages.

* Fix visual overflow of Carousel block.

* Fix default field type on Form page fields.


Maintenance
-----------

* Update to the latest fullcalendar, icalendar, and django-bootstrap5 versions.


Upgrade considerations
----------------------

After upgrading, be sure to generate and apply new migrations as so:

.. code-block::

   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate

Template changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The default Article Index and Event Index page templates now use the respective miniview template to list child pages. This results in a slight visual difference.

Block changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``button_title`` has been re-added to ``ButtonMixin``.


Thank you!
----------

Thanks to everyone who contributed to `4.1 on GitHub <https://github.com/coderedcorp/coderedcms/milestone/56?closed=1>`_.
